---
aliases: []
tags: [Type/Supervisor-Meeting]
title: "A Regular List of Updates for Meetings with Stevens" 
draft: false
---

### Wednesday 24 November 2021
#### New Content
- These notes are now available online!
- Occurrences of the word παιδεία in papyri added to the [παιδεία lemma-profile](παιδεία.md)
- Beginning work on the words [μάθησις](μάθησις.md) and [δίδαξις](δίδαξις.md)
- Many new words under the [Greek section "Words Not Yet Categorised"](../_index.md)

#### Overview of What I've Worked On
I began looking into how the words μάθησις and δίδαξις are spread out over time. After realising that these, like παιδεία, are much more focused in Late Antiquity, I began looking to see if there are words related to ancient education which are, time-wise, more prominent in the Hellenistic era (or, just the BCE era more broadly since most of the words I had investigated up to that point had been more prominent after the 2-3 centuries CE). This led me back to Martin Bloomer's edited book *A Companion to Ancient Education* (*Companion*) which I began reading and taking note of every Greek word I came across which related to education (some more directly, some more remote). I'm still reading through this and looking up words as they come. 
<br> <br>
Additionally, a new approach(?) came to light when I was discussing my topic with another PhD student. He recommended looking into onomastika for contextual definitions for words. That has led me to begin looking into onomastika, lexicography and glossography in the Hellenistic world. I don't have much to present on this, but it's fascinating and I think may be somewhat helpful. More updates to come on this front.
<br><br>
One further area I've been reading up on pertains to how to conceptualise education more generally speaking. When reading through Mark Griffith's chapter on early Greek education in Bloomer's *Companion*, I found it interesting to see how much he relied on Pierre Bourdieu's concept of 'rite of institution' and his opinion that it describes ancient education better than Arnold Van Gennep's concept of 'rite of passage'. This led me to read Bourdieu's chapter on rite of institution. I'm still working out my thoughts on whether I agree with him on his opinions about rites of institution as well as whether I think his theoretical framework is useful for understanding ancient education. 

#### Thoughts on Where I'm at and What I'm Doing
As I'm still reading through the *Companion* and collecting words to assess, I'm still in a sort of in-between time when there isn't a ton to show yet. However, in shifting to focus on defining words for education, I have felt as though there's actually something to focus on and research. This has been extremely helpful, since at the beginning of term I felt as though the topic was so broad I couldn't figure out what I was researching. Due to this, I think that I want to keep researching these words (and eventually make my way into the cuneiform vocabulary as well) so that I have something that is easy to keep in focus. I don't know yet whether this will expand into a larger topic exploring terminology for ancient education, if I will find something interesting in this exploration of terminology that leads to a more nuanced version of my original topic, or if this research will end up becoming a section of my introduction. For now, though, it's helpful to just limit the scope a bit to help keep the project from becoming too vague.
<br><br>
Regarding writing up some of this content, I want to take the next few weeks (probably until sometime in the first week of December) to keep exploring words relating to education. After that, I think it would be helpful to get out of my note-taking system and begin writing something up in Microsoft Word (this process always helps me narrow down and clarify my thoughts). Even though there is technically a Winter break, I don't intend to stop working since I'm treating this DPhil like a full-time job. Given this, I want to write up something which will give you an idea of where I'm at and also give you something you can reference in my application for OOC-DTP (AHRC) funding. 

#### Questions
- I'm finding that many of these words that relate to education occur much more (usually at least 8-10 times more) in late antiquity than in the Hellenistic era. Do you think it would be worth my time to investigate late antique education to see if it could shed any light on the Hellenistic era, educational practices in antiquity or both? I'm not very familiar with late antiquity and so it would be a bit more foreign to me. Though, if it is likely to yield useful information, I'm definitely willing to look into it.
- Regarding Bourdieu and the concept of 'rite of institution', I am split in my thoughts at the moment. On the one hand, I find his ideas fascinating (though there are some serious shortcomings). On the other hand, I am hesitant to fully embrace his theoretical framework as I usually end up being more sceptical of the famous social and philosophical theorists of the mid-to-late-twentieth century for being a bit too dilettantish. I haven't read enough of Bourdieu yet to know if I think the same about him, though. Additionally, I worry that any project I undertake using the framework of a theorist like Bourdieu 1.) will be too based on another person's thoughts on the nature of the world's social framework which was not articulated after investigating this specific topic and 2.) will be intrinsically tied to Bourdieu and will thus age at the same rate and receive the same public opinion as his work. My question, then, is just what are your thoughts on this? I suspect that the answer is something of a middle-road, but I wanted your thoughts nonetheless, especially since some Classicists do use theoretical frameworks like this and end up receiving praise for it (e.g., Paul Kosmin's *In the Land of the Elephant Kings* using the concept of spatial theory originally articulated by Henri Lefebvre).

